HTML Lesson 1: Optional homework (#36)
Code-Your-Future/syllabus: docs/react/week-1/lesson.md

As you can see, this is much easier to read than both the straight `React.createElement` API and the vanilla JS API. Most people using React use JSX to write their components.

| Exercise B (estimate: 5 min)                                                                                                                           |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Change the [JSX example from above](http://jsbin.com/gekahexige/edit?html,output) to instead render a `h1` tag with the text "Hello Code Your Future". |

## Let's create a React app

| Exercise C (estimate: 10 min)                                                                                                                                     |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | 1. If you haven't already, follow [the instructions to create a React app] called `pokedex`(https://docs.codeyourfuture.io/students/guides/creating-a-react-app). |

Reviewer: This link isn't formatted quite right I think

2. We create a React component called `HelloWorld`.

> 3. We _render_ the `HelloWorld` component into a `div` with the id of `root`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. We _render_ the `HelloWorld` component into the element with the id of `root`.
```

There _is_ a `div` tag in this code, but there's nothing in the code which shows that `root` is a `div`, so I think it's worth removing the `div` in this sentence to avoid possible confusion.

| 1. In the `pokedex` React app that you just created, open the `src/App.js` file.                                                                                                                                                          |
| 2. Delete everything in the file except the line containing `export default App`. You should see an error in your terminal and in your web browser - don't panic! We're going to remake the `App` component ourselves.                    |
| 3. Import the React variable from the React package.                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 4. Create a function named `App`, which will be our component.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 5. Within the `App` function, return a `<h1>` element with the text "Welcome to the Pokedex". What do you see in your web browser?                                                                                                        |

> | 6. Create a `<div>` element that _wraps around_ the `<h1>` you just created.                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: Is it worth explaining _why_ we need to do this (i.e. that JSX assumes it has a single root element)? I've seen a lot of students get confused because they didn't have a wrapper element, and the error message wasn't super clear to them

Reviewer 2: Right. I think this is something that often gets mentioned in the lesson, but you're right that there's no explicit coverage in the syllabus. I would be in favour of adding it.

I think the question is mostly about where it goes: week 1 is already pretty crammed.

> Notice how the components that we write (`HelloWorld`, `Greeting`, `Mentor`) are written using a `camel case` convention and always start with an uppercase letter? And "regular DOM" components (`div`, `span`) are always lowercase? This the convention to let you know whether you are using a "regular DOM component" or a component that you have written.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how the components that we write (`HelloWorld`, `Greeting`, `Mentor`) are written using a `camel case` convention and always start with an uppercase letter? And "regular DOM" components (`div`, `span`) are always lowercase? This is a convention to let you know whether you are using a "regular DOM component" or a component that you have written. When you're making your own components, you should always start them with an uppercase letter.
```

| 1. In your `pokedex` React app, open the `src/App.js` file.                                                                                                                        |
| 2. Create a new function named `Logo`.                                                                                                                                             |
| 3. Copy the `<header>` element and its contents and paste it into the `Logo` component.                                                                                            |
| 4. Replace the `<header>` element in the `App` component with the new `Logo` component.                                                                                            |
| 5. Create a new component function named `BestPokemon` and return a `<p>` element with some text saying which is your favourite Pokemon (e.g. "My favourite Pokemon is Squirtle"). |
| 6. _Render_ your new `BestPokemon` component below the `Logo` component within the `App` component.                                                                                |

> #### Arrow Functions for shorter syntax

Reviewer: In the block below, it says "This can be even shorter again if we use parentheses and implicit return:" - do you know what it means by "use parentheses"? I'm not sure, so it may be worth rewording to clarify... I _think_ it's trying to get a "if your JSX goes on more than one line, it needs to be in parentheses", but the example it uses doesn't do so.

Reviewer 2: Thanks that's a good spot. I think this is a remnant from before we formatted all the code snippets with Prettier. I believe it used to wrap with parens, but for a single element, Prettier will strip the parens.

So I think there's two options here:

1. We make the examples here have more than 1 element so that Prettier doesn't strip the parens
2. We remove the wording about parens, and assume that Prettier will auto-format the student's code (i.e. lack of knowledge of parens is fine because the tool will handle it for them)

I think I'm leaning towards option 1.

Reviewer: Yeah, #1 feels like it's going to be simpler, and reinforces to the students that parens may be required (and if they put more parens than they need, that's not the end of anyone's world)

| 7. Now open the `BestPokemon.js` file.                                                                                                                                        |
| 8. Copy the `abilities` variable and then delete it from `BestPokemon.js`.                                                                                                    |
| 9. Paste the `abilities` variable into `App.js`.                                                                                                                              |
| 10. Pass the `abilities` variable as a prop to `BestPokemon` from `App.js`.                                                                                                   |
| 11. In the `BestPokemon.js` file replace the existing usage of `abilities` with the `abilities` **prop**. You should still see the Pokemon ability names in your web browser. |
| 12. **(STRETCH GOAL)** Repeat the process with the `date` variable in the `CaughtPokemon.js` file.                                                                            |

## Further reading

> Fed up of having to provide a prop for every component? Do you want to make your component use a value most of the time, but it can be overridden with a prop? This is a good time to use `defaultProps`. [This page on the React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/typechecking-with-proptypes.html#default-prop-values) describes in more detail.

Reviewer: This page is purely class-focused - I'm not sure the small benefit of `defaultProps` is worth the confusion... I guess maybe for those who are eager enough to do further reading it'll be useful/interesting? Maybe it's worth throwing in a sentence saying something like "This example uses classes, which are different ways to define functions. We're not going to use classes in this course, but it's good to know that if you see some code which looks like:
```js
class MyComponent {
...
}

MyComponent.cats = "cute";
```
when you're using functions, you can write:
```js
function MyComponent {
...
}

MyComponent.cats = "cute".
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks, good point. I don't think I reviewed this when I was looking at the initial Hooks content. It is a bit frustrating that all of the official docs haven't been updated, but my understanding is that there is an on-going effort to update them.

I did some poking around and I discovered that there's a [proposal](https://github.com/reactjs/rfcs/blob/createlement-rfc/text/0000-create-element-changes.md) to deprecate `defaultProps` on function components anyway (although I will note that was last year and I haven't heard any more about this since. They are supported in the latest version).

The proposal suggests moving to prop destructuring + default values, which I think is indeed too complex for it to be worth it.

So, I think I'm leaning towards removing this section altogether. EDIT: I went ahead and removed it.
